Amitabha Mindful

Pure Land
The Offerings to Buddha, An Education Perspective
Symbolizing the Teachings for Cultivation of Good Deeds

Mindfulness of the Buddha
Offerings we noticed that are placed in front of the Buddha statues are widely seen as a gesture of respect and gratitude to the Buddha. We could think of such offerings the same way as we bake some cookies for a friend. The act of offering is spontaneous and thoughtful.

On top of this, for those who take the teachings seriously from Sakyamuni may naturally make offerings as a gesture of showing respect to the teacher and recognition for the teachings that are bestowed by the Buddha.

These offerings we usually see, such as lamps, water, flowers, or fruits, actually have symbolic meanings with educational significance in Buddhist teachings. Everything in place serve as a teaching aid, and are educational in nature.

Water
Water, as seen offered in a glass or a container, we should know that water symbolizes the Dharma. The water is clean symbolizing that our minds need to be as pure as the water. It is calm without a single ripple, symbolizing the tranquility in our minds. Thus, water inspires us to have purity and equality of mind.

Flowers
Flowers reminds us of the law of causality. Flowers symbolize the “cause” as the blossoming of flowers results in the bearing of fruits. Flowers symbolize the Six Paramita — Giving, Abiding by the precepts, Patience, Diligence, Deep concentration, and Wisdom.

Fruits
Fruits are not offered to the Buddha or Bodhisattvas to eat. The Buddhas and Bodhisattvas neither smell nor eat, they want for nothing from us. They remind us that if we want the sweet fruit or the good result, we must cultivate and accumulate good deeds, the cause. Thus, everything we see in the Buddhist hall is a teaching aid.

Lamps
Lamps symbolize light. Our minds should be as just and as honorable. We strive to help others, even at the expense of ourselves. As the lamps offered traditionally are oil lamps, the burning of oil symbolizes sacrificing oneself to illuminate others. This symbolizes great compassion. Today, light bulbs are used and this symbolic representation (of the oil lamps) is hardly seen. Also, lamps symbolize wisdom and brightness; and incense sticks symbolize self-discipline and deep concentration.

Reminding Us the Educational Values
We will not see anything in the Buddhist halls that do not symbolize some kind of teachings for our cultivation. Offerings in a Buddhist temple or center, thus, are educational; they serve to remind the practitioners of the Buddha’s teachings at all times. A true practitioner in this mundane world would not accept any flattery, let alone Buddhas and Bodhisattvas. Sadly, many Buddhists are ignorant of the educational significance of these objects that some tend to see this as superstition.

The Buddha’s teachings ultimately allow us to recover our true nature and Buddha wisdom. It is this wisdom that will enable all to differentiate true from false, proper from improper, right from wrong and good from bad. The ultimate goal is to enable us to attain truth, virtue, beauty, wisdom, and genuine eternal happiness.

Of all the teachings by Buddha Sakyamuni, the Buddha in numerous occasions introduced Amitabha Buddha to all sentient beings about the Western Pure Land, the Land of Ultimate Bliss. One can learn more about Pure Land Buddhism and get started with the Buddha-name Mindful Chanting practice.

Buddhism is inherently an education that has a lot to offer to everyone. It should not be mistaken as a religion, nor be taken scholarly as philosophy. To reap the real benefits of Buddhism is to learn with an open mind and practice Buddha’s teachings in your everyday life.

Namo Amitabha!
