Amitabha Mindful

Pure Land
Amitabha Buddha — A Name Goes Beyond Space and Time
Rediscovering Our True Nature Within — Buddha Nature

Amitabha Buddha (Buddha of Infinite Light and Infinite Life)
When Sakyamuni Buddha, our teacher, introduced us to the Western Pure Land (Sukhāvatī) and taught the practice of reciting the name of Amitabha Buddha, he made a special point to explain the name “Amitabha”.

His detailed explanations are found in the Amitabha Sutra and the Infinite Life Sutra, which are two rare “self-spoken” sutras by Sakyamuni without being asked by his followers or anyone at that time.

These two important Pure Land sutras are so special as they are intended to help us develop a deep faith in the inconceivable powers and its myriad virtues of this great name — Amitabha Buddha, therefore, we should single-mindedly recite “Amitabha Buddha” without a trace of doubt or diversion.

Sakyamuni Buddha gives us two explanations to the name “Amitabha” — infinite light and infinite life. The literal translation of “Amitabha” is infinite, and infinity is actually unexplainable. So, the Buddha uses the meanings of “infinite light” and “infinite life” to encompass all sorts of infinity.

Infinite light extends through space in all directions; infinite life extends through time and reaches through the past, present, and future. The dimensions of space and time interpenetrating are the body of the universe. This body as a whole is the body and the land of Amitabha; this body as a whole is the name of Amitabha.

Infinite Light — Beyond Space
Sakyamuni first gives us the definition of “Amitabha” as infinite light:

“The light of this Buddha is infinite, and shines on all lands throughout the universe without obstruction. Thus this Buddha is called Amitabha.”

The true nature of Mind is still, unmoving but always shining with awareness; hence it is light. The idea here is that Amitabha Buddha penetrates to the infinite essence of the true nature of Mind so his light is infinite.

When Amitabha was Monk Dharmakara (in his previous incarnation in the distant past), he made forty-eight vows, among them was the vow that his light would forever shine through all the worlds in the ten directions. Now that he has achieved Buddhahood, everything he vowed for has been accomplished.

Amitabha Buddha’s light shines universally, and thus Amitabha in particular is named Infinite Light. From the point of view of sentient beings, how come we don’t seem to see his infinite light in this world? Actually the light of this Buddha shines everywhere in all worlds. When any beings’ affinity with this Buddha is deep, then the light of this Buddha will reach them everywhere, and always appear to them in its complete fullness anywhere.

Infinite Life — Beyond Time
Next, Sakyamuni gives us the definition of “Amitabha” as infinite life:

“Also, the life-span of this Buddha and his people is an infinite number of immeasurable eons, and so he is called Amitabha.”

The true nature of Mind is shining with awareness yet ever still and unmoving — hence it is life. The idea here is that Amitabha Buddha penetrates to the infinite essence of true nature of Mind, so his life span is infinite.

When Amitabha was Monk Dharmakara, he made a vow that the life spans of both Buddhas and humans in his realm of Pure Land would be infinite. Now that his vows has been accomplished, he is given the name “Infinite Life.”

Amitabha represents the inherent, enlightened true nature of sentient beings, The true body is transcendental, formless, and inconceivable. The true self is neither arises nor ceases and has neither beginning nor end.

Be a Buddha for a Moment
Reciting the name of Amitabha reveals this supreme, prefect enlightenment — our inherent enlightenment within us. The inherent perfect enlightenment and the enlightenment gradually revealed through cultivation and realization are not fundamentally two different things, just as Buddhas and sentient beings are not two different things.

We must understand that the names “Infinite Light” and “Infinite Life” are based on our inherent Buddha nature of sentient beings. This is because sentient beings and Buddhas are inherently equal in nature, thus, those who invoke the name of Amitabha is no different from him either in their light or in life span.

So, how do we establish a deep connection?

We practice to recite “Amitabha Buddha” with a single-focused mind; if you are in accord with your inherent Buddha nature for a moment, you are a Buddha for a moment and you are infinite for a moment; if you are in accord with your inherent Buddha nature moment after moment, you are a Buddha moment after moment!

Check out a few chanting music samples from the Amitabha Mindful collection, and start your practice today!

Invoking our True Nature — Infinite Light and Infinite Life
Given the truth of infinite light, when sentient beings recited the Buddha-name and vowed to born in Amitabha’s Pure Land, they are also born in all the lands of the Ten Directions, and when they see Amitabha Buddha, they are also seeing all the Buddhas of the Ten Directions. Therefore, they are saving themselves through learning the Dharmas from many Buddhas in the Ten Directions; at the same time they bring compassion to benefit those who look for a way to end their suffering and cycles of rebirth.

Given the truth of infinite life, when sentient beings recited the Buddha-name and vowed to born in Amitabha’s Pure Land, these beings are in a position certain of attaining complete, perfect enlightenment in a single (this) lifetime and will not be reborn in different forms. In other words, these sentient beings will not be retrogressed into lower realms, like hungry ghosts, animals, or hells.

Once-in-a-Lifetime Opportunity
Anyone who have the opportunity to learn about and study this Amitabha Buddha-name Dharma door is something that one won’t want to pass in this life. The practice of this Dharma door is simple — focus your mind solely on chanting Amitabha Buddha, and vow to reborn in the Western Pure Land. This is your ticket to attain complete enlightenment in this (one) lifetime!

Namo Amitabha!
