Amitabha Mindful

All Phenomena Arise from the Mind
Our Environment Changes According to Our Mind
May 24, 2025

How Do We Know the Power of Our Mind?
All Phenomena Arise from the Mind.
Our Environment Changes according to our Mind.

Believe it or not, our mind gives rise to all phenomena, our environment can be transformed by our mind. This is revealed by countless experiments on the water crystals.

Watch the video "Our Mind…Water Knows" (video credits: Hua Yan Laboratory). From this video, scientists have demonstrated clearly that our state of mind affects the environment -- proofing the causality of our mind and the environment.


We often feel relaxed, calm, and clear-minded when we hear the water, see the water, get close to it, or touch it. Why so? Is it because life comes from water? Is it because water and life are closely related? Or is it because we simply cannot live without it? All may be true.

Our close relationship with water seems innate. When life is being formed, water is the first exterior existence to be felt by it. This is probably why water can give us a sense of peace as if we are back to the original point of life. But is this influence and interconnection with water only unilateral? After extensive research and experiments on the message of water at Hua Yan Laboratory, Taiwan, the results show you the secret of the cosmos revealed by water — is all starting from our mind, water knows!

Water makes up over 70% of the human body. It also takes up 70% of Earth’s surface in the form of rivers and oceans. Water is an important element in sustaining life. The hydrogen molecule and oxygen molecule, which are the building blocks of water, have been deemed to be some kind of “liquid mineral”.

In 1988, the French immunologist, Jacques Benveniste, published his research report about the memory of water. He found that when drugs are diluted down to a density close to pure water, they still maintain the same curative effect. This argument about the memory of water was not widely recognized at that time. As such, Jacques Benveniste even lost his research funding.

In 2009, the joint recipient of Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine, French virologist, Professor Luc Antoine Montagnier supported Benveniste’s argument in his research report. He showed that the water molecule in the liquid that contains HIV DNA can emit a particular type of electromagnetic signal, which can be duplicated in liquid that does not contain HIV DNA. This has proven that water has memory.

Thus, the video "Our Mind…Water Knows" clearly showed how water knows the human expression of love regardless of languages, understand the natural disasters happened on earth, and the tragedies humans suffered. Water manifests the power of our mind. If we change the state of our mind, the environment will change accordingly.

Does water have memory? It sounds very peculiar. In fact, not only water, the entire universe is one organic life entity.

The German quantum physicist, Dr. Max Planck, documented in his research on atoms, “I can tell you as a result of my research about atoms this much: There is no matter as such . . . The mind is the matrix of all matter.” He claims that the universe is like an invisible electromagnetic web, where everything including water on this web can receive the energy vibration of human thoughts.

Watch the video “Does Water Have Memory?” (video credits: Hua Yan Laboratory)


The water experiment is based on the scientific theory to prove that water is not only able to receive human thoughts, but is also able to change accordingly. And the research results from the video presented by Hua Yan Laboratory are conducted through countless experiments on the water crystals. It was discovered that water can read, water can smell, water can listen and watch, and feel. Water can receive and reflect the messages of human thoughts through the shapes and contents of the water crystals.

Based on these numerous water crystals experiments, water knows everything! The air has moisture so it would certainly know everything as well. We cannot live without water. Every blood cell in our body would die without water. Water makes up 70% of our body. So it makes perfect sense to perform experiments on water.

The water experiments have made us realized that all matters are reflection of our mind, and the universe is one life entity. Shall we give up on competition and bring our mind back to the state of purity, equality, and goodness? Can we change the state of our mind so to resolve conflicts and bring the world back to peace and harmony?

Come to think of it… whenever we give rise to a thought, water knows and the air also knows. The water that make up 70% of our body knows. The rivers and oceans that make up 70% of the Earth’s surface also knows. What kind of water crystals would you like to see in your body and the surrounding environment? When all beings are in harmony, the world will be in peace.

Cultivating a Pure Mind, with Positive Thoughts
The universe is indeed one living entity. All matter is conscious of sight, sound, taste, smell, touch, and thoughts. The whole universe senses even our slightest thought, therefore, we cannot hide our thoughts from anyone.

Positive thoughts generate positive energy and negative thoughts generate negative energy. We must therefore strive to maintain proper thoughts, words, and conduct. Only when we know to love ourselves will we truly love others, including all beings.

As sacred religious teachings taught about causality, morality, and virtue, they help guide everyone transform from evil to good, from contaminated to pure, and from deluded to awakened. These teachings will be the proper way — perhaps the only path — to resolve our conflicts, disasters, and calamities, and restore harmony in our world. If people of all religions start the transformation with themselves, follow and practice the teachings of their own faith, at the same time cooperate and work together to learn from and respect one another, help and care for one another, then a harmonious society and peaceful world can soon be realized.

For Buddhism, the Dharma of Buddha-name Chanting, as extolled by Sakyamuni Buddha in the Amitabha Sutra, offers an expedient way for all beings to attain a pure mind by constantly be mindful of Amitabha Buddha. The ultimate purpose is, in one lifetime, to attain rebirth in Amitabha Buddha's Pure Land, thus ending the ocean of sufferings from the cycle of Birth and Death. This is the most crucial matter of all in one’s life. Therefore, sentient beings are urged to practice Buddha-name Chanting.

The Pure Land School practitioners follow the Buddha-name recitation of Amitabha (or “Amituofo”) because “Amitabha” represents good health, happiness, and wisdom. The water crystals in the experiments shown in the video have proven that reciting Amitabha Buddha’s name has the power of cultivating our mind to renounce evil and recover goodness.

Such benevolence based on love is also the core value and the shared root of all religions. The righteous belief in religion helps people cultivate their goodness and enhance their spirituality. It also generates positive energy to make the water crystals show beautiful patterns.

As Venerable Master Chin Kung pointed out,

“Anything that we think, we say, or we do, water knows. Even the air knows. It is not only being seen by many people, but is also being felt by all beings in the universe. If we truly understand the concept and realize the reality, we would not dare to conceive any evil thoughts, nor would we dare to commit any sins. Our ancestors told us, that is god. We believe that.

What do they mean by god? It seems to refer to all the matter outside our body that is able to feel what we think, what we say, and what we do. In Buddhism, it is called Alaya Consciousness.

Our Alaya Consciousness is the false mind, and our innate nature is the true mind. The true mind does not have any thoughts, nor does it have any distinction of good or bad. The true mind is the origin of all phenomena. All phenomena are actually reflection of the true mind. So they are interlinked without any obstacles, which is sort of like the Internet, but far more sophisticated and superior than the Internet.

Hence, we cannot do anything that is against our conscience assuming that nobody would know. As a matter of fact, Buddha and Bodhisattvas know it, so do the ghosts and spirits surrounding us.”

Everyone is encouraged to give this buddha-name chanting a try. Here are a few sample chants you can pick up and follow from Amitabha Mindful Chanting to get you started.

Be mindful of Amitabha Buddha. It all starts from our mind . . .

Namo Amitabha!
