Amitabha Mindful

Chanting
Ten Benefits of Buddha-name Chanting
Practicing Mindfulness of the Buddha

What are the real benefits of Buddha-name Chanting?
Some say the benefits of Buddha name chanting practice may result after death, but at present we merely experience weariness and fatigue with no practical benefit. That’s why this is likely a reason practitioner become lazy and retrogress in the cultivation path of Buddhahood.

Such saying is a misunderstanding and incomprehensive. The sutras say that those who invoke the Buddha’s name with utmost sincerity will derive ten great benefits in this very life.

First, as serious practitioners, we want to go to the Pure Land at the end of this lifetime! Anyone who wants to go to the Pure Land has a pure mind. Without a pure mind, one cannot go to the Pure Land.

How do we get a pure mind?
In everything we do, we need to chant and do so properly.

What is chanting properly?
When we are chanting properly, the mind subdues wandering thoughts, discriminations, and attachments. Such a mind is pure.

Next, we learn that these are the ten benefits described by Buddha Sakyamuni himself, as recorded in the sutra teachings.

Day and night they enjoy the invisible protection of all celestial beings, powerful deities, and their multitudes of retainers.

Twenty-five great Bodhisattvas, including the Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara (Kuan Yin or Kannon) and other Bodhisattvas, constantly keep them in mind and protect them.

They enjoy the continuous aid and protection of the Buddhas; Amitabha Buddha emits constant light to gather them in.

No evil demons, ferocious dragons, poisonous snakes or the like can harm them.

They do not meet with such calamities as drowning, burning or other violent death; nor do they encounter such punishment as being shackled and imprisoned.

Previous evil karma is gradually dissipated; the souls of those whom they have murdered in past lives are liberated and no longer seek revenge.

They have restful sleep or dream of auspicious events or view the supremely wonderful body of Amitabha Buddha.

Their Minds are always joyful and at peace, their complexions clear and bright, their bodies filled with energy and strength; whatever they undertake generally meets with success.

They are always honored and assisted by others, and are gladly accorded the respect reserved for the Buddhas.

At the time of death, they do not experience fright, as right thoughts manifest themselves; they witness Amitabha Buddha and the Lotus Sacred Assembly bearing the golden lotus dais, to welcome and escort them to the Pure Land, where they will enjoy peace of Mind and happiness forever.

Since Buddha Name Chanting can bring such benefits in the present and in the future, it should be taken as the most important of all mundane and supra-mundane dharma methods.

As serious practitioners, we should take this as once in a lifetime opportunity, redouble their efforts and not to cast any doubt on this Dharma Door.


Namo Amitabha!
