Amitabha Mindful

Chanting
Chanting: The Ten-Recitation Method
Simple, Convenient, and Effective Way to Buddha name Chanting

Start your daily chanting practice today!
If one strives to end the cycle of Birth and Death, one should concentrate on Buddha-name recitation practice. This is because when one ends the cycle of Birth and Death and reborn in Amitabha’s Pure Land, it kickstarts one’s path to the attainment of Supreme, Complete Enlightenment without retrogression. Strive to reborn on the Western Pure Land and learn the benefits of Why Amitabha’s Pure Land.

The Ten-Recitation Chanting Method
This simple, convenient, and effective way to practice Buddha name chanting is especially suitable for those who find that they have little time for cultivation. The chanting helps us to be mindful of Amitabha Buddha. It brings us joy.

We begin when we wake up. Sit up straight and clearly chant "Amitabha" ten times with a calm and focused mind, aloud or silently.

We repeat this eight more times throughout the day (totaling nine sets everyday). Each time we chant "Amitabha" ten times.

This chanting can be done by following one of the two programs. Please choose the one that is the most suitable for your circumstances.

One program is to chant upon waking up, before and after breakfast, before work, before and after lunch, before and after dinner, and before retiring.

The other program is to chant upon waking up, before breakfast, before and after our morning's work, before lunch, before and after our afternoon's work, before dinner, and before retiring.

The key is regularity; disruption of this practice will reduce its effectiveness. When we recite consistently without interruption, we will soon feel an increase in our wisdom, serenity, and purity of mind. Diligent practice of this method together with unwavering belief, vows and living a moral life can ensure fulfillment of our wish to reach the Western Pure Land.

Single-minded recitation of the Buddha name is the correct and most expedient method to practice in our busy lives nowadays.

Meditation to the Pure Land (Taught by Zen Master Han-Shan)
Chanting is a way of meditation. Connect your mind & soul to the sound of Amitabha Buddha name chanting. Mindfully practice chanting everyday to cultivate a pure mind. Amitabha means infinite, and Buddha means wisdom and awakening.

Connect your SELF with the inconceivable power of Amitabha and the Western Pure Land. Dedicated the merits and virtues to all beings in this world.

Picture a great lotus, shaped like a wheel and colored blue, yellow, red or white. During meditation and Buddha Recitation, always contemplate this lotus blossom clearly.

Think of yourself as sitting on this lotus seat. Think about Amitabha Buddha emitting light, illuminating your own body.

When visualizing, do not be bound by walking, standing, sitting, or reclining positions. Also do not be bound by time. Just visualize the Pure Land clearly. Whether your eyes are open or closed, (the image) should never be blurred.

Even in your dreams you should still see Amitabha Buddha, the Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara (Kuan Yin) and Bodhisattva Mahasthamaprapta (Shih Chih) and all other Bodhisattvas sitting each on their own lotus blossom — all radiant and clear.

Buddha-name chanting and meditation do go complementary together.

Anyone who follows such practice will attain Complete Enlightenment in the Pure Land in one lifetime!

Namo Amitabha!
