Amitabha Mindful

Pure Land
The Art of Buddhism, the Educational Values
Symbolizing the educational values derived from Buddha teachings

Ancient Buddhist artists of creative talents were believed to be masters with high spiritual achievements, who created the magnificent statues, sculptures and composed moving musical lyrics. Such ancient artists are believed to have been serious learners and profound practitioners of Buddhism, a mastery considered essential for conveying truth, goodness, beauty, and wisdom in their art.

Mindfulness of the Buddha
Just as Buddha's teachings guide us toward enlightenment and recovering our true nature, Buddhist art serves as a tool to teach and inspire the discovery of our innate Buddha nature.

The artistic creations are thus teaching aids to help us understand the different methods of spiritual cultivation as extolled in the teachings. The ultimate goal is to lead us to attain enlightenment and genuine eternal happiness.

Recognizing that no single imagery or teaching method can fully encompass all worldly phenomena, Buddhism employs a variety of artistic expressions to convey its teachings.

Artistic architecture, along with images of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, are created as teaching aids to help us understand the true reality of life and to depict the different methods of cultivation.

Symbolism of the Architecture
Buddhist temple exterior architecture is a metaphorical artistic expression that carries educational values. While the Buddhist temple's exterior suggests a two-story structure, it is in fact only one story. The metaphorical significance is twofold:

The exterior two stories represents: 1) "absolute truth" or the true reality of life and the universe, and 2) "relative truth" or worldly views still clouded with delusion.

The interior single story illustrates that it does not have two stories, because both are the same truth. To the deluded, the two appear distinct and different; however, to the enlightened, they are one and the same.

Buddhist temple with a red roof and visitors.
Despite its two-story appearance, the Buddhist temple is actually a one-story structure.
Symbolism of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas
All Buddhas symbolize our virtuous innate nature. All Bodhisattvas and Arhats symbolize the virtue of practice. Without the virtue of practice, the innate virtuous nature cannot be revealed. This complementary relationship is the reason why both Buddha and Bodhisattva images are included on the buddha altar.

The objective of Buddhist art is to educate. Therefore, the statues and imageries are teaching aids created to depict elements of our true inner nature and the virtues practitioners aspire to cultivate and achieve.

Each Buddha represents a part of the virtuous nature. Every part of it is perfect, as "One is all, all is one". Each Buddha name illustrates one or more virtues.

When we see the image of Buddha Shakyamuni, usually Ananda and Kasyapa, the two great Arhats are on either side of him. Buddha Shakyamuni represents our innate or original nature. Ananda, who is foremost in hearing, represents understanding and wisdom. Kasyapa, who is foremost in asceticism, represents practice.

We may also see Buddha Vairocana, the wisdom body of Buddha Shakyamuni, with Manjushri Bodhisattva and Samantabhadra Bodhisattva on either side of him. Manjushri Bodhisattva represents understanding; Samantabhadra Bodhisattva represents practice.

What is the meaning of Shakyamuni? "Shakya" means kindness, teaching us that we need to treat others with kindness and compassion. "Muni" means stillness and purity. The whole meaning of Shakyamuni teaches us to treat others with kindness and compassion, and to strive for purity of mind for ourselves. This is the meaning of Shakyamuni and is innate to our original nature.

For Pure Land Buddhism, Buddha Amitabha is regarded as the original nature with Avalokitesvara (Guan Yin) Bodhisattva representing compassion and practice, and Mahasthamaprapta Bodhisattva representing wisdom and understanding.

What is the meaning of Amitabha? Amitabha Buddha is Sanskrit, where “Amitabha” means infinite and “Buddha” means awakening. This name conveys the meaning of infinite enlightenment.

Amitabha Buddha is a name of innate, true nature. Infinity in everything, infinite wisdom, ability, long life, and so forth. Of all the infinities, infinite life is the most important, because without it, all infinities are useless. With infinite life, we can enjoy all other infinities.

How can we gain these infinities? We follow and practice the teachings of Avalokitesvara and Mahasthamaprapta Bodhisattvas.

Avalokitesvara Bodhisattva (Kannon or Guan Yin) represents compassion, teaches us to behave toward all beings with compassion

Mahasthamaprapta Bodhisattva represents the state of constant mindfulness, teaches us the single-mindedness of Buddha Amitabha, to concentrate the mind solely on Buddha Amitabha, without ceasing, without intermingling with other methods, and in this way we will surely attain wisdom and supreme perfect enlightenment.

By treating all beings with compassion, and be mindful of Amitabha Buddha by mindful chanting only “Namo Amitabha Buddha”, we will develop our virtuous nature, uncover our infinite merits and virtues, and enjoy infinities in everything.

Therefore, when we pay respect to the images or statues of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, we need to remind ourselves that each represents a method of cultivation for attaining wisdom and perfect enlightenment.

We can choose a method that is the most convenient to practice. Of all the teachings by Buddha Sakyamuni, in numerous occasions the Buddha introduced Amitabha Buddha and encouraged all sentient beings to make a vow to reborn in the Western Pure Land, the Land of Ultimate Bliss. One can learn more about Pure Land Buddhism and get started with the Buddha-name Mindful Chanting practice.

The objective of the Buddhist Art is to educate. Therefore, the statues and imageries are teaching aids created to depict elements of our true inner nature and the virtues we aspire to cultivate.

A smiling buddha statue stands welcomingly.
Maitreya (aka Laughing Buddha)
Symbolism of Maitreya and the Four Heavenly Guardians
Upon entering a Buddhist temple, we first usually see the Hall of Heavenly Guardians. In the center of the hall, there we see Maitreya Bodhisattva. To his left and right are the Four Heavenly Guardians or Dharma Protectors.

Maitreya

Maitreya Bodhisattva is more widely known as the "Laughing Buddha". The Laughing Buddha, also known as Budai Monk (the historical monk figure better known in China around 907 to 923 CE), has long been considered as the manifestation of Bodhisattva Maitreya.

We often see that Maitreya is portrayed with immense happiness, as the statue is depicted with a big smile and a big belly. This depiction is metaphorically profound in a few ways:

Laughing Buddha is often found at front entrance of a Buddhist temple. This shows that Buddhism greets visitors with a hearty smile, welcoming anyone to come on in.

Buddhism teaches us how to get rid of sorrows and afflictions and attain happiness in our lives. The laughing statue shows visitors that learning Buddhism and following the Buddha’s path will attain a happy life. We practitioners also should learn to be cheerful and be courteous to all.

Buddhism teaches us to be tolerant and treating everyone fairly and equally. The big belly represents the attitude of inclusiveness, that we take in and be tolerant of anything we experienced good and bad, and anyone we encountered in our lives.

The Laughing Buddha will be the next future Buddha of this Saha World and Maitreya will come to the salvation after Buddhism has long been perished in this world, as foretold by Buddha Sakyamuni in the Maitreya Vyakarana Sutra.

In that future, Maitreya will introduce the Amitabha Buddha and the Western Pure Land (Sukhāvatī) to all beings. Maitreya will teach all beings that in order to end the sufferings and the cycles of births and deaths, one should believe in the inconceivable power of Amitabha Buddha and make a vow to reborn in Amitabha’s Land of Ultimate Bliss. There all beings once reborn will attain supreme perfect enlightenment.

The Four Heavenly Guardians (Dharma Protectors)

Inside the Main Cultivation Hall of a Buddhist temple, the four heavenly deities standing beside Maitreya Bodhisattva are the Four Heavenly Guardians or the Dharma Protectors.

They are the symbolic guardians of the practitioners of the Buddhist dharma door. Each of these four guardian deities portrays a different aspect of buddhist teachings, cultivation method or wisdom.


The Four Heavenly Guardians
The Eastern Dharma Protector symbolizes responsibility and safeguards the territory, which means that all of us are responsible for ourselves, our family, society, and the country as a whole. How do we fulfill this responsibility? If each of us performs our duties well, fulfilling our obligations, we support each other and ourselves as well. In this way, society will be harmonious and the country will be prosperous and powerful.

The Southern Dharma Protector symbolizes progress and teaches us diligence. It is not enough to just meet our responsibilities. We need to make progress with each passing day for no progress means we regress. This emphasizes the importance of constantly cultivating and advancing our virtues, conduct, wisdom and abilities, and to improve performance in our duties and our standard of living.

The Western Dharma Protector symbolizes comprehensive vision and knowledge gained through exposure to the world. This represents the need to open our eyes to observe nature and humanity, to refine what we see and learn, and to distinguish good from ill.

The Northern Dharma Protector symbolizes comprehensive study and learning. This underscores the importance of persistent practice for achieving goals in responsibility and self-improvement. As an ancient proverb said, "To read ten thousand books and to travel ten-thousand miles". Reading is the means for accomplishing the fundamental knowledge. Traveling ten thousand miles is to learn from observation. Through travel we see the good of others and learn from the best.

Each Heavenly Guardian is holding an object symbolizing the Dharma teaching.
The Four Dharma Protectors each also hold various objects to symbolize different aspects of the Dharma.

The Eastern Dharma Protector of Managing the Nation holds a lute, which symbolizes the principle that we need to refrain from acting with undue haste but should keep to the middle path. It is like playing a lute, if the strings are too loose, it will not play. If they are too tight, they will break. We need to be responsible in our duties and do things in a proper, balanced way.

The Southern Dharma Protector of Growth holds the sword of wisdom that cuts away all troubles and worries.

The Western Dharma Protector holds a dragon or snake that is twining around him. Today, everything is constantly changing, only when we can see the truth will we be able to interact with ease and serenity.

The Northern Dharma Protector holds an umbrella symbolizing protecting us from all the pollution that is around us.

While learning, we meed to safeguard our pure mind and quiet heart from becoming polluted. Furthermore, we need to understand the true reality of life and the universe, to have the wisdom and ability to properly interact with all people, matters, and objects.

All of this can be learned from visiting the Hall of Heavenly Guardians. If we regard the Protectors as deities with magical powers who will protect us if we burn incense, prostrate and offer flowers and fruits praying for protection and safety we will be sadly mistaken. This is superstition.

All the facilities, images of Buddha and Bodhisattvas and any offerings made are teaching tools designed to inspire our mind and wisdom. They serve to remind us of the importance of being enlightened instead of deluded, virtuous instead of deviated, pure instead of polluted. These are the three principles of Buddhist teaching and practice.​

Unlike our schools and museums that they are separated, Buddhism is a combination of school and museum, as the buddhist art forms are not just artistic but also educational. ​Everything serves as teaching aids with metaphorically educational values. Once we understand the educational significance of the Buddhist artistry, we will naturally arise with heartfelt admiration and appreciation.

Buddhism is inherently an education that has a lot to offer to everyone. It should not be mistaken as a religion, nor be taken scholarly as philosophy. To reap the real benefits of Buddhism is to learn with an open mind and practice Buddha’s teachings in your everyday life.

Namo Amitabha!
